Meeting Date: 2022-04-26
Minutes taken by: Tomas
Attendees:
    Matthias St. Pierre
    Matt Caswell
    Nicola Tuveri
    Richard Levitte
    Tomas Mraz
    Shane Lontis
    Paul Dale
    Tim Hudson
External attendees:
    Hugo Landau
    Martin Koci

Agenda:

    * Nominate a minute taker and confirm agenda
    * Agree minutes from previous meeting
    * Review outstanding actions
    * Security issues
    * PRs to merge before the release (#18142, #18143)
    * API Diffs
    * Discuss issue 18099
    * Review draft technical policies
    * Branch policy
    * Review issues with OTC hold (30 minutes)
    * Allocation of tasks to contractors
    * Agree agenda for next meeting
    * AOB

** Nominate a minute taker and confirm agenda

Tomas volunteered to take the minutes.
Proposed: Matt, seconded: Tim

Agenda for the meeting agreed. Proposed: Tomas, seconded: Matt

** Agree minutes from previous meeting

Last week minutes were approved.
Proposed: Matt, seconded: Matthias

** Review outstanding actions

AI: Update the QUIC API proposal with approach to solving the 5 problems
(1) timer based events (2) TCP vs UDP socket creation (3) blocking (4) no visible
event capability for existing apps (5) configure protocol via a string.

In progress

AI: Separate out in the API proposal the subset we will implement for MVP.

In progress

AI: All to re-read the branch policy proposal.

In progress

AI: Shane to raise issue with OMC for CLA exception for EC Kiila code.

Not relevant for OTC

AI: Dmitry to raise a vote about whether OPENSSL_strcasecmp() should be public
API in 3.0

Done

AI: Everyone to read the API diffs

In progress

AI: Tomas to add permissions to allow Martin access to otc/otc repository

Done

AI: Everyone to read the discussion in 18099

Done

** Security issues

Current security issues were discussed and severity assigned.

** PRs to merge before the release (#18142, #18143)

Although #18142 fixes a regression, it is minor one which does not affect any
proper API call invocations. We can postpone merging these PRs after the
release.

Discussion about pushing the release a week later due to OPENSSL_strcasecmp
patch being invasive. The consensus was to continue with the release today.

Tim has dropped off the meeting.

** API Diffs

https://github.com/hlandau/openssl/pull/1

AI Matt, Hugo: To synthesize the API proposal and the diffs into a single PR

** Discuss issue 18099

Matthias wanted to bring the issue whether different behavior between FIPS and
default provider in EVP_PKEY_check() is desirable or not. Also the documentation
is somewhat unclear on what the behavior should be. It is provider specific
so perhaps the documentation of the provider implementations should be
improved.

AI: Shane to look at the PKEY check documentation in providers' docs.

** Review draft technical policies

https://github.com/openssl/technical-policies/pull/7

Postponed, we have a separate meeting topic for that policy.

https://github.com/openssl/technical-policies/pull/39

In general it is OK to be voted on. If anybody has further review comments,
please add them to the PR.

AI: Tomas to start the vote when it is ready for vote.

https://github.com/openssl/technical-policies/pull/40

AI: All to read the Release Requirements policy proposal.

https://github.com/openssl/technical-policies/pull/42

This can be voted on.

https://github.com/openssl/technical-policies/pull/45

There were some ideas how to improve this proposal that will be recorded
in the PR.

Matt dropped off the meeting.

** Branch policy

Deferred to the next week due to time.

** Review issues with OTC hold (30 minutes)

https://github.com/openssl/openssl/pull/18130

This is a feature PR against 1.1.1 which is not going to be merged.

https://github.com/openssl/openssl/pull/18038

These are missing accessors and OTC agrees with adding them to 3.0 and 1.1.1.

https://github.com/openssl/openssl/issues/17987

Postponed, we have a separate topic scheduled for the next meeting.

https://github.com/openssl/openssl/pull/17937

Postponed as Matt has dropped off the meeting. 

** Allocation of tasks to contractors

No change.

** Agree agenda for next meeting

    * Nominate a minute taker and confirm agenda
    * Agree minutes from previous meeting
    * Review outstanding actions
    * Error suppressing in OpenSSL
    * Branch policy
    * Review issues with OTC hold (30 minutes)
    * Review draft technical policies
    * Allocation of tasks to contractors
    * Agree agenda for next meeting
    * AOB

** AOB

Nicola mentioned that pyca tests are important to have enabled because they
include the Wycheproof tests that include many negative testcases for
crypto algorithms.

AI: Nicola to rebase the PR#16340 for making the pyca tests run against the
1.1.1 branch.

** New and carried over action items [transported from above]:

AI: Update the QUIC API proposal with approach to solving the 5 problems
(1) timer based events (2) TCP vs UDP socket creation (3) blocking (4) no visible
event capability for existing apps (5) configure protocol via a string.

AI: Separate out in the API proposal the subset we will implement for MVP.

AI: All to re-read the branch policy proposal.

AI: Everyone to read the API diffs

AI: Dmitry to properly record the vote in openssl/technical-policies#44

AI: Matt and Hugo to synthesize the API proposal and the diffs into a single PR

AI: Shane to look at the PKEY check documentation in providers' docs.

AI: Tomas to start the vote on Coding style adjustments when it is ready for
vote.

AI: All to read the Release Requirements policy proposal. 
    https://github.com/openssl/technical-policies/pull/40

AI: Nicola to rebase the PR#16340 for making the pyca tests run against the
1.1.1 branch.
